We've now gone the opposite direction
from making a grouped aggregated
chart to lots of teeny little
points on our chart hopefully.
Let's see what we got.
And again, there are a lots
of different ways to do this.
We're getting more and more freedom as
we're getting more comfortable with
these different channels, and
mappings to the property in our data.
So, let's start out with, our first
task was to get the width on x-axis and
the height on the y-axis.
Yeah, so
by this point we're probably used to, and
we're gonna put this right in our
call to plot.dot in the options here.
We're probably used to this syntax now,
we're gonna put in the name of the channel
that we want and then the name of the
property, so x we're gonna want the width,
right, of each of these data
points which now we have.
Thanks to our wrangling from before.
Otherwise we would have to be
splitting it up as we go here, and
then height on,
with quotes height capitalized on the y.
if I can spell it right,
height, is that right?
It looks weird, okay, there we go.
All right, so now we've got some
dots on our x and y-axis, and
we're not done yet, but
already we can see some patterns emerging.
Does anybody notice anything jumping out?
How about these diagonal lines?
Since this is yeah, so
these diagonal lines jumping out any
guesses what this is telling us?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> So,
there's it's showing us that
there's a lot of like similarities.
There's some kind of pattern here, right?
There's some kind of
pattern in the data set.
What this is showing us is that
essentially you've got kind of a constant
ratio between width and height.
So as width goes up in certain patterns,
the height kind of scales accordingly,
so this probably corresponds to
certain aspect ratios that
we're noticing in the data set.
Ratio of width to height.
So there may be that they're not all
the same with but or height, but
they're kind of emerging as the same ratio
which is showing us that kind of constant
scaling factor.
In any case as we continue to
add more detail to this plot,
we'll be able to confirm that or
disprove it if I'm completely wrong
which is definitely possible.
So let's see what else can we do here?
We can use some of the other channels
to encode different properties,
for example, the device category.
So what did folks use for
the device category mapping here?
Before we use the fill, so
we could try doing that again, for
example, not the only option,
but let's try fill device, okay?
So now we get some more information here.
We can see as expected that the smaller
values seem to be our mobile category.
Believe yeah,
that was that orange one there.
And the bigger ones are the blue for
desktop and
we got some reds in the middle for
tablets.
Cool, cool, cool.
But a lot of these dots are overlapping,
so it's a little hard to see.
So, we might wanna also be using
fill-opacity to make these transparent.
So one thing we could do, for example,
we could set fill-opacity to a constant
value like half, like 0.5 so
that I can see where there is overlap.
So that's 1 option that I have.
Or, I could use the opacity
to actually represent
some meaningful number in the data.
Like for example we said it would be
interesting to use that sessions value
that we saw before.
So what we'll notice now is that
essentially the darker a dot is,
the more session We observed with that
resolution in that device category.
So we can see now the way that they're
clustering, basically the darker clusters
are similar resolutions and the darker
individual dots are where we're seeing
a lot of sessions from the same
resolution and the same device category.
Okay, what else can we do here?
Well, right now all of
the dots are the same size.
But there is a channel called R that
stands for the radius of these dots,
which we could also use to represent,
let's say the session.
So maybe instead of the opacity,
I want to scale up the size for
the different number of sessions.
Let's try this.
Shall we?
If anybody who tried this already you'll
know what's about to happen.
Whoa, [LAUGH] All right
we've got some huge dots and
some little tiny ones that
are really hard to see.
So in this case what we're
seeing is that there are some
really big discrepancies in our data set.
We have some very small numbers of
sessions and some very big ones and
what I might want to do in this
situation is scale down the kind
of differences between those huge
numbers and the small numbers.
So sometimes when we find that like,
information is getting obscured like this,
like right now the big dots are so
big that they're completely
dwarfing most of the other dots.
What I can do is also play
with the way that I am scaling
the mathematical values that
I'm actually visualizing.
And so, for example,
in the reference answer,
you'll see that what we could do
as one option to get around this,
is to instead of plotting
the sessions value itself,
we could actually transform it
into the log of the sessions.
So this way, if I do this now I
get a little bit closer sizes,
between my different dots, so
that I don't completely lose
information about those smaller values.
And if we want to duplicate that
again on the fill-opacity, and
have fill-opacity also encode sessions,
now we can see with both
the opacity of the dot and its size,
how many sessions we're seeing.
So now we can sort of see
where the focus points emerge.
Now what you might notice, is that in
addition to our log transformation
here that we're doing within
a function passed into the our channel,
you might have noticed this little
line down at the bottom here,
which says that we want our opacity
scale to also be a logarithmic scale.
So these are two different ways
of doing this in this case
we're passing in this log
type to our opacity scale and
basically telling plot to do
that logarithmic sizing for us.
And if you'll notice if we take that
out so if we comment that line out,
what happened is once again we lose
a lot of the detail in the lower range
of those values because the high
values are so much bigger.
So essentially now we're losing a lot of
information on our chart without that log
scaling.
So you can play around with
these type of options as well to
create a visualization
that highlights again,
whatever the salient information
is that you're interested in.
And make sure that you don't obscure
away those interesting details
by having the wrong kind of automatic or
default scale values that plot is
just going to choose based on the the
input domain of your data and the output
range from in this case 0 to 1 on
capacity that you have available to you.
So just a couple of notes on making sure
that you are visualizing as much data
as you intend to be visualizing and
not unintentionally obscuring
some of it behind those kinds of,
off balance datasets.
Okeydoke, let's see what else
did we say we wanted to do here.
Tooltips right?
So we could do that with for
example just the number of sessions or
you might have wanted to also
display the resolution, so
we could have contaminated
those strings together
whatever you would like their questions.
Yes, exactly.
Somebody guessed at the aspect
ratios of these diagonal lines.
Exactly and then there's some
vertical lines emerging too.
Where we're seeing that folks have their
browser is set to a particular width that
they use at lots of different heights,
and he guesses what's going on there.
So we might need to dig in to be sure or
maybe even do some more intense
user research to collect more data.
But I would guess that maybe folks have
it like split to half their screen or
they have it kind of minimized to the
default, whatever window width it is, and
then they're scrolling it up and down and
dragging it longer and shorter, perhaps.
And then we can notice that, for
example, in our desktop, blue dots,
we see a lot of aspect ratios where
the screen is wider than it is tall.
Whereas on mobile,
we see kind of the opposite pattern.
These yellow dots are kind of clustered
at aspect ratios where the height is more
than the width,
which kind of makes sense, right?
A lot of the time we're looking
in portrait on our phones, but
rarely on our desktops right we're not
really spinning them around so much.
Cool so
we're already finding some insights and
some patterns in this data
which is the whole point.